the Hamas controlled Health Ministry
says an air strike has killed dozens of
people at alag magazi refugee camp in
central Gaza the camp is in the
evacuation Zone where Israel had urged
Palestinians to relocate to Israel says
it is investigating the
claim it comes after the United Nations
reported that a school it runs in
Northern Gaza was also hit by a strike
Gaz and health authorities reported 15
people were killed and dozens wounded
with thousands of displaced Palestinians
Sheltering in the school
buildings a sense of anger and despair
is palpable in the aftermath of this
round of Israeli air strikes they struck
a un run school being used as a refugee
shelter at jabalia in Northern
Gaza I was standing here when three
bombings happened I swear I carried the
body then I carried a capitated body
with my own
hands where should we go they hit the
shelters people on the street are hit
while walking since when has it become
normal to strike shelters this is not
fair you walk on the street you get hit
while you're carrying a dead body to
bury they hit
us the Israel Defense Forces are
conducting what they called targeted
incursions into Southern Gaza as well as
pressing ahead in the North
North we LED hard fights inside the Gaza
Strip we finished and completed the
encirclement idea forces are operating
from south and north of Gaza City and
entered populated areas to do
so with Gaza City entirely surrounded
Israel's military announced the
three-hour window in which people could
leave along an evacuation route but some
of those who tried claim it wasn't
possible
the road was damaged because of bombings
and swollen dead bodies on the
street maybe they've been dead on the
street for two or three
days so we turned back at high speed
because we felt like it was a
trap Israel claims to have killed
several Hamas commanders and says it is
making significant progress Israeli
authorities are also still telling
people to move South where they say it's
safer but with no let up in the bombing
many Palestinians feel there's nowhere
safe to
go US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has held talks with Palestinian
Authority president Mahmud abas in rala
on a surprised visit to the West Bank
blinkin told abas that the US was
against the force displacement of gaza's
residents and committed to getting Aid
to them the Palestinian leader repeated
his calls for an immediate ceasefire the
US continues to push for brief
humanitarian pauses saying that a full
truce would give Hamas time to
regroup for more I'm joined by Boris
foran a political scientist from thead
college here in Berlin uh welcome to you
Boris US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin met with Jordan and Egypt's
foreign ministers yesterday and today
he's made a surprise visit to the West
Bank he's doing a lot of talking what he
actually trying to
achieve I think a number of things I
mean as we just heard and as we know
from the media reporting it's a very
complicated very difficult situation
he's I think trying to first of all
prevent um an expansion of the war so
deescalate at the same time he's
pressing in his different visits for a
pause to the fighting so that
humanitarian Aid can happen and then I
think he's also having conversations
with uh with different leaders and and
uh they're thinking about what could be
a possible post-war uh
regime when it comes to negotiating a
ceasefire or humanitarian pause how much
leverage does the US have on
Israel well it's difficult again I mean
everything in this in this conflict is
very complicated in the US yes there is
a relative support for Israel and there
has been a long tradition obviously uh
the Republic have passed legislation in
the house that is supposed to um to
bring military aid to Israel but uh
under the condition that it's UNF
funding at the same time the Ukraine war
so there's uh a limit to the bipartisan
support at the same time uh Biden is
struggling with his own party where you
have progressives who are arguing that
he should well try and pull out and not
support Israel and and support the
Palestinian cause instead so it's a very
tricky situation and Biden at home I
think is facing a lot of push back it's
a very tricky situation and it doesn't
get any easier next stop for Mr blinkin
is turkey its leader president erdogan
has recalled his ambassador to Israel
Over the war in Gaza and has ceased
formal communication with Benjamin
Netanyahu why is blinkin going
there I think these are two reasons why
he's going there at the same time I
think he will ask for moderation on the
part of erdogan and and turkey erdogan
has called the Hamas a Liberation group
and so I think there's been a lot of um
well a lot of debate about uh that and I
think what uh what blinkin is going to
try and do is also to talk about the
appr with with the EU that Edan had been
seeking in the last couple of months
also the US is was supposed to deliver
F-16 fighter jets so I think there's
another debate that he will use probably
as leverage to try and get some
concessions from the from the Turkish
leader Boris Forman thank you so much
thank
you let's bring in ammed bam he's a
spokesperson for the Norwegian Refugee
Council joining us from the Jordanian
Capital Aman um the Israeli Army has
once again given civilians in the Gaza
Strip a Time window to flee to the South
what are conditions like in Northern
Gaza and are conditions any better in
the South where they are being told to
go um thanks for having me uh
it's very hard it's it's virtually
impossible to move around Gaza at the
moment moving from north to south brings
with it lots of risks um a lot of people
um I've heard have moved to the South
only to find the conditions uh just as
of falling with overcrowding for with
competition for resources with
competition for water for food and then
they have made that decision to go back
to the north again um what we are saying
is that um not only there is no place
for these people to to to be crammed
into because this is what it has come
down to um there is no safe space and
and homes and shelters um have been
actually bombed in southern Gaza as well
release suppliers have been waiting at
the Rafa border crossing now for days
how much Aid is actually coming through
to Gaza and how many people can you
actually help with that amount of
supplies very little I mean Gaza has
probably has had less than 200 um trucks
coming Crossing from from Egypt Gaza
needs hundreds every day uh with the
with the pressing needs that we see on
the ground um unfolding the crisis the
tragedy unfolding by the minute there
there are teams on the ground who are
equipped and ready to to provide that
support whether that is UN agencies
whether that is organizations like NRC
we have 54 people despite the tragic
losses that they have sustained have
suffered they are ready to mobilize
they're ready to offer support we have
been trying to give some cash support
for people to go to their shops and get
what they can get however the there is
very little on the ground and people are
telling us that you know um they are
down to the last glass of clean water
people are drinking contaminated
polluted water children are are being
given a biscuit um my colleague this
morning had to walk hours um to just um
catch a c
grab some some biscuit for for for
children there um it is a tragedy
unfolding and I think even in Northern
Gaza for example Aid has has come down
to virtually nothing really um what we
need is not just a humanitarian foruse
we need a ceasefire now and we need
these trucks to come flowing into Gaza
and save
people ammed Bam from the Norwegian
Refugee Council thanks so much for your
time
thank
you